#summary Pencil Frequently asked questions

Here is a list of Frequently asked questions related to Pencil.


= General =

----

*How can I zoom the screen in version 1.3?

Use CTRL + mouse scroll wheel

----

*How do I export to PNG keeping the name of the tab?

If you are using a space in your page/tab title, it will be replaced by an underscore '_'

----

*How to write down a description for each page so that the ideas and design decisions can be shared and iterated upon?

use the page note functionality for that.

1.Right click on the page tab - http://db.tt/DCOrfyl4

2.Select Edit page note - http://db.tt/A9rAS7rT

3.Write down your ideas and design decisions to share - http://db.tt/ObDJXBde


This description will be include in your exported documentation.

----

*Where download more collection for pencil ?

The first place is the web site of the Pencil project: http://pencil.evolus.vn/en-US/Downloads/Stencils.aspx

You could find a lot of collections shared by the community, simply dig in the old messages of this group (I find a lot myseflt)
You could also find some of them in the download section of the repository of the Pencil project.: http://code.google.com/p/evoluspencil/downloads/list

----

*I want to export my sketches to a pdf. Some discussion here said a template is needed. What template? where can I install one? where can I find any
instruction about this? 

There is a page on the project's wiki that explain how to use templates:

http://code.google.com/p/evoluspencil/wiki/UsingTemplates

----

